# JupyterHub and BinderHub Team Meeting - May 2018

Goal: Continuous improvement

#### Date: 28 May 2018
#### Videoconference link: https://calpoly.zoom.us/my/jupyter
[Link to prior meeting's virtual meeting report](https://hackmd.io/XXXXXXX)

## Welcome to the Team Meeting

Hello!

If you are joining the team video meeting, sign in below so we know who was here. Roll call:

* name / institution / GitHub handle
* Tim / Wild Tree Tech / @betatim
* Min / Simula / @minrk
* Jessica / Jupyter / @jzf2101
* Erik / IT-Gymnasiet -> Sandvik CODE / @consideRatio
* Carol / Cal Poly / @willingc
* M / Netflix / @mpacer
* Lindsey / UBC (Berkeley soon!) / @lheagy

## Actions

1. Help or discussion needed; Agenda Items for Monthly Meeting
 1.1. Open PRs
     - helm chart labeling and yaml updates: https://github.com/jupyterhub/zero-to-jupyterhub-k8s/pull/625
         - please help test it before we land it
         - big PR so getting it merged soon is important
         - if you have particular on/off toggle in their many combinations that would be useful
         - could be as simple as finding syntax errors, because we have a combinatorial explosion of possible options
         - try out upgrading from an old version of the chart to a new version
         - as part of the travis setup we could test this upgrade by first installing `master` and then upgrading (new PR, new task)
             - Erik's experience of Travis: 0, help appreciated!
         - Pulled out changes from PR#625
             - https://github.com/jupyterhub/zero-to-jupyterhub-k8s/pull/627
             - https://github.com/jupyterhub/zero-to-jupyterhub-k8s/pull/635
         - We need to ensure that the `helm upgrade --force` does not recreate PVCs.
     
 3.2. Open issues
* https://github.com/jupyterhub/zero-to-jupyterhub-k8s/issues/691#issuecomment-390799994
    * get started with this by documenting the existing steps you have to take
    * which image needs changing
    * where do files need to go
    * Would they be able to completely remove the Jupyter logo/branding somewhere in the interface?
    * we should add some footer or "gray scale" logo to the templates so that there is always some connection to JupyterHub
    * Tim, Jessica and Chris will tackle this via issue XXX
    * Related: [binderhub/#540](https://github.com/jupyterhub/binderhub/issues/540)
* z2jh helm chart release
    * Erik will help make the release
    * Include JupyterHub 0.9(!)
    * Link to the issue coordinating release: https://github.com/jupyterhub/zero-to-jupyterhub-k8s/issues/617
* Scipy 2018 paper ([binderhub/#529](https://github.com/jupyterhub/binderhub/issues/529))
    * if we want to fix/change things we should do that now
    * if there are comments from reviewers we can start replying to them as soon as they appear
    * Thank you Jessica for all the iterations!
    * Build issues [scipy_proceedings/#12](https://github.com/choldgraf/scipy_proceedings/issues/12)
    * bibtex is broken :(
        * issue is using files with _ in their name (generally a TeX issue)
* PEARC 2018 ([zero-to-jupyterhub-k8s/#643](https://github.com/jupyterhub/zero-to-jupyterhub-k8s/issues/643))
    * the event is pronounced Perk (if you were wondering like Tim)
    * Aaron and Jessica (maybe) and Yuvi (maybe) will help with this
    * Aaron is the champion and we should try and connect with him
    * Erik would like to help out with the JupyterHub > Cloud deployment as a way to prepare material for the JupyterCon tutorial
* Build-a-binder workshops https://github.com/betatim/build-a-binder/
    * if you are in Europe this summer Tim would like to pay a flight for you to help out
    * if you know good examples of binder uses we should collect them somewhere for
    * first one Birmingham: (16th or 17th July) https://github.com/betatim/build-a-binder/issues/3
    * second on in Lausanne (~16th September)
    * JZF will help get marterials ready eg binder deployments info and gallery
    * Meeting notes from team meeting this week (includes discussion on binder gallery) https://paper.dropbox.com/doc/Day-1-JupyterHub-EP4L3bWRFhB9zKtDfR5pT
* BinderHub v0.1 ([milestone](https://github.com/jupyterhub/binderhub/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+milestone%3Av0.1))
    * we should try and get to a release quickly, defer most of the current issues attached to the milestone to 0.1+X

2. Decisions needed
    - https://github.com/jupyterhub/mybinder.org-deploy/issues/611
        - PagerDuty wins, we will try and get it going here at the in team meeting
    - 
    - ...
    - 
3. Next actions (team)
    - concrete actions here
    - ...
    - ...


## News, Information, and Thanks

4. Team Metrics

5. Team News and Informational items
- 5.1 Organization highlights 
- 5.2 BinderHub projects
- 5.3 JupyterHub projects
- 5.4 Related projects (repo2docker, nbgrader, others)

6. Thanks, Things to Celebrate, and anything else
- 6.1. FORCE18 talk is accepted! Thanks to everyone esp @betatim for edits to proposal
- 6.2. Review of JupyterHub [team meeting notes](https://paper.dropbox.com/doc/Day-1-JupyterHub-EP4L3bWRFhB9zKtDfR5pT)

- 6.3. SWUFE in China 
- ...
- ...