# JupyterHub and BinderHub Team Meeting - April

Date: 11 April 2019 at 8am Zurich time (11pm PST **on Wednesday**)

**Link to Video Recording:** [click here](https://calpoly.zoom.us/recording/share/o5nqrIIDMPqO2VQUnBZFe76oEUhN3IgfnWJKzv3VBg2wIumekTziMw)

The call will start with a quick round of updates from everyone present (you can pass if you want to), followed by bigger agenda items. There will be no feedback/questions on the 60s updates. Questions/discussion on the larger agenda items will be moderated by a speaker list (see end of this hackmd).

## Welcome to the Team Meeting

Hello!

If you are joining the team video meeting, sign in below so we know who was here. Roll call:

* name / institution / GitHub handle
* Zach / Jupyter Cal Poly / @Zsailer
* Tim / Binder / @betatim
* Min / Simula / @minrk
* Kirstie / Turing Institute / KirstieJane
* CL / InfuseAI / @clkao
* Sarah Gibson / Turing Institute / @sgibson91
* Joe Hamman / NCAR / @jhamman

## Quick updates

60 second updates on things you have been up to, questions you have, or developments you think people should know about. Please add yourself, and if you do not have an update to share, you can pass.

* name: update or pass
* Min: JupyterHub 1.0
* Tim: Welcome Sarah to the mybinder.org deployer team!
* CL: Kind (kubernetes in docker) as faster way to get a kubernetes cluster in CI/laptop
* Joe: DevOps all day, every day at the moment (six hubs on multiple cloud vendors!!)
* Sarah: Learning how to make mybinder.org deployments and investigating autoscaling on Azure


## Reports and celebrations

This is a place to make announcements (without a need for discussion). This is also a great place to give shout-outs to contributors! We'll read through these at the beginning of the meeting.


## Agenda items

Let's collect all potential agenda items here before the start of the meeting (**closing time 24h before**). We will then attempt to create a coherent agenda that fits in the 60m meeting slot. If there are similar items try and group them already.

* Add agenda item here [name, estimated time for conversation]
* Configuring the repo2docker base image [Joe Hamman, 5-10 minutes]
    * https://github.com/jupyter/repo2docker/issues/487
    * hopefully showing off a prototype...
    * Some good reading on Cloud Native Buildpacks: https://discourse.jupyter.org/t/creating-a-specification-for-reproducible-repositories/569/10?u=betatim
        * Cloud native buildpacks seem to be the enterprise version of repo2docker
        * we should understand how the cloud native buildpacks work and see what can be borrowed from their design.
        * repo2docker's build pack structure was inspired by heroku buildpacks. We liked their first idea, so maybe we should keep copying them :)
    * motivation: large images that take a long time to build and then distribute on nodes
    * motivation: want to share environments between BinderHubs and JupyterHubs
    * Favoured solution right now based on BuildPacks specifyign their own base image and repo2docker will look for entrypoints so that you can add BuildPacks from other Python packages
    * Questions:
        * can you use a straight up repo2docker image with JupyterHub or not? Should you?
            * Yes you can

* procedure around assigning sub-domains of mybinder.org to other BinderHubs.
    * decide to accept or reject a procedure if there is a consensus either way
    * if there is no consensus decide what is missing for people to be able to make a decision (either way)
    * https://github.com/jupyterhub/team-compass/issues/144


* feedback wanted: [PrimeHub](https://github.com/InfuseAI/primehub) - a meta chart for z2jh and keycloak [CL, 5-10min]
    * motivation: install z2jh and keycloak and allow admin to config auth through keycloak
        * https://github.com/jupyterhub/zero-to-jupyterhub-k8s/issues/886
    * A meta chart that gives you a working JupyterHub with KeyCloak right away
    * Asking for feedback:
        * is this actually useful for anyone?
        * what do you think about the licensing of the project?
            * mentioning the various projects it depends on in the README (and LICENSE?) seems like it ticks all the boxes
    * Adding discourse as a part of this chart is probably out of scope for the current PrimeHub
    
* What timeslot works for the Asia-Europe version of the meeting?
    * maybe move the meeting back by one hour to make it easier for Europe
    * clear that if you are based in the Americas "this meeting is too late for you to attend"
    * create good notes so that the other timezones can catch up
    * stay with one meetinng per month that alternates instead of creating two meetings per month
        * less meetings!!
